verse4-6
Bhagavad Gita: Chapter 1, Verse 4-6


अत्र शूरा महेष्वासा भीमार्जुनसमा युधि
युयुधानो विराटश्च द्रुपदश्च महारथ: || 4||

धृष्टकेतुश्चेकितान: काशिराजश्च वीर्यवान् |
पुरुजित्कुन्तिभोजश्च शैयश्च नरपुङ्गव: || 5||

युधामन्युश्च विक्रान्त उत्तमौजाश्च वीर्यवान् |
सौभद्रो द्रौपदेयाश्च सर्व एव महारथा: || 6||

atra śhūrā maheṣhvāsā bhīmārjuna-samā yudhi
yuyudhāno virāṭaśhcha drupadaśhcha mahā-rathaḥ
dhṛiṣhṭaketuśhchekitānaḥ kāśhirājaśhcha vīryavān
purujit kuntibhojaśhcha śhaibyaśhcha nara-puṅgavaḥ
yudhāmanyuśhcha vikrānta uttamaujāśhcha vīryavān
saubhadro draupadeyāśhcha sarva eva mahā-rathāḥ


Translation:

Behold in their ranks are many powerful warriors, like Yuyudhan, Virat, and Drupad, wielding mighty bows and equal in military prowess to Bheem and Arjun. There are also accomplished heroes like Dhrishtaketu, Chekitan, the gallant King of Kashi, Purujit, Kuntibhoj, and Shaibya—all the best of men. In their ranks, they also have the courageous Yudhamanyu, the gallant Uttamauja, the son of Subhadra, and the sons of Draupadi, who are all great warrior chiefs.

भावार्थ : 
इस युद्ध में भीम तथा अर्जुन के समान अनेकों महान शूरवीर और धनुर्धर है, युयुधान, विराट और द्रुपद जैसे भी महान योद्धा है। (४)
भावार्थ :
 धृष्टकेतु, चेकितान तथा काशीराज जैसे महान शक्तिशाली और पुरुजित्, कुन्तीभोज तथा शैब्य जैसे मनुष्यों मे श्रेष्ठ योद्धा भी है। (५)
भावार्थ : 
युधामन्यु जैसे महान पराक्रमी तथा उत्तमौजा जैसे अत्यन्त शक्तिशाली, सुभद्रा का पुत्र अभिमन्यु और द्रौपदी के पुत्रों सहित ये सभी महान योद्धा हैं। (६)

Commentary

Due to his anxiety, the Pandava army seemed much larger to Duryodhan than it actually was. He had never expected his opponents would mobilize an army of warriors with such military prowess, who would be formidable in battle. Out of fear of the looming catastrophe, he started enumerating the names of all the mahārathīs (warriors who were singly equivalent in strength to ten thousand ordinary warriors) gathered on the Pandava side. They were all exceptional heroes, and great military commanders, equivalent in valor to his cousins Arjun and Bheem.



